>> Shirley Wu: You guys might
have seen the force lay out as
something like these right?
I think this is, the lamaze,
is this the lamaze?
This might not the lamaze, but
you've seen force lay outs,
all right you've seen things
like this where it's graph and
all that the force lay out d3
force does for you, a lot.
But it basically calculates the X and
Y positions of
each of the nodes for you,
so that you don't have to,
because having to calculate
this is kind of painful, yeah.
So the force layout tries to
do the most optimal layout it
can given as little overlap
of nodes as possible and
as little overlap of links as possible and
of course each of
those attributes are things that
you can specify with D3 force.
Yeah, so
how D3 force works under the hood, and
this is my favorite slide because
each of those little dots are a node.
And what the force layout does is it
figures out, okay here's my node, and
what are all the attractive
forces between the nodes?
So, three goes through and says, okay,
given this red node in the center.
Apply all the attractive
forces that basically
are pulling all of the other nodes to it.
Yeah, so attractive forces pull
nodes together, and that's so
that you can conserve space.
So if you don't have
the attractive forces,
all of these nodes would just kind
of fly away from your center or
something like that, or be really big and
doesn't fit on your screen, right?
So there's attractive forces,
denoted by the hearts.
And there are also repulsive forces,
that act on each of the nodes.
And so that's kind of like yeah.
The forces that push nodes apart and
that just makes sure that these
nodes don't overlap with each other.
Cuz sometimes your nodes might be circles
that are 50 pixels or 100 pixels or
something like that.
So actually you really
shouldn't maybe ten pixels.
And so they don't overlap, and
make sure they don't overlap.
And so underneath the hood,
what Force Layout does is it
repeats this calculation.
So, it's basically figuring out the x and
y positions,
of that node,
just that red node given all of
the forces that the other
nodes are applying on it.
Attractive and repulsive,
and it figures this out for
every single node to get every single
node, their x and y positions,
and that whole process is called one tic,
so one tic, yeah.
So that whole process is called one tic,
and
the whole point of a force
layout is that it runs
thousands of iterations of
these quote unquote tics.
>> Shirley Wu: To converge on an optimal,
quote unquote optimal layout.
And so it's basically running
a simulation where at each tick,
nodes are nudging each other apart or
pulling each other together.
And over thousands and
thousands of iterations,
you hopefully arrive at something
that looks good on the screen.
So, this might be actually
a pretty good example.
>> Shirley Wu: You can see,
can you see that?
It's pretty fast but then like it
starts a little bit in the middle,
and then it kind of expands so that
none of them are overlapping each other,
and let me see if there is any
other ones that might be good.
So, every single movement that you
see that's a tic, so as it and
stuff that's a tic,
where the positions are being calculated.
>> Shirley Wu: And I have a article
that I wrote that kind of goes through,
this is version three, but it kind of goes
through what the force layout is for.
How do you use it?
>> Shirley Wu: What does
the data structure look like?
And this is where you pass
in your nodes and links for
the force layout to calculate its x and y.
And you have to tell it
to start the simulation.
And then, as the simulation is going,
you want to be
setting the, maybe the x and
y attribute of the node,
and the x and y attribute of,
if you have any links on each tick.
Or you could be doing that after the whole
simulation has finished running on end.
>> Shirley Wu: And then there is like,
there is a little bit of like tricky
things about the force layout but I think
I have mentioned them all in this article.
And then I also go in to detail
about all of the different
forces that the d3 force layout applies,
and how those are kind of working.
So this is for d3 version 3 and
there's some things that
have changed in version 4.
Where instead of having these default
forces applied on our simulation,
in d3 version 4 we can specify
the forces that we want.
>> Shirley Wu: So we can pick and
choose between all of these different,
do we want the force to
center all the nodes?
Do we want collision detection to
makes sure to push apart the nodes so
that they don't overlap each other.
And then, do we have links?
And with links then, links,
you can push apart nodes so
that the links unfurl correctly.
And there's a lot of different
things that you can kind of pick and
choose and put in there.
And that freedom is really
awesome in version four that
didn't exist in version three.
So yeah, definitely if you're
interested in the forced layout,
>> Shirley Wu: Check out the article and
then check out the documentation
to kind of see the changes.
Yeah, between those two, cuz I think
force layout is one of the things that
changed quite a bit,
between version three and version four.
And then, this is the example.
This is a super simple,
I think this is Les Mis data set, and
then it's basically just all of the,
each of the nodes are character and
all of the links are co-occurances
throughout the musical.
And then, so
this is where I defined forcedSimulation,
and this is where I say all of
the forces that I want to use.
So, I'm specifying that I have links,
specifying that I want a certain
amount of retraction and a certain
amount of reportion between the forces.
Specifying that I want the [INAUDIBLE]
be pulled to the center,
because if I don't have that,
it's going to be at zero zero.
And then the slightly different thing
from everything that we've done
previously is notice that with
the links and circles that I defined,
notice that it doesn't have any CX or
CI attributes that they are not set.
When we create this circles and
you certainly can set them but
you don't have those x and
y attributes yet
because you haven't run
the full simulation yet.
So once you start, I think this is, yeah.
So once, I think in version
actually in version four
the four simulation runs automatically
as soon as you define it.
So as it starts running,
then you start getting the x and
y attributes for each of those nodes and
that's when you can
apply them in a take call back function.
So for example, if I just take this and
then put them here, that's what happens,
yeah because you're
only updating the x and
y when the circles are being created,
which isn't necessarily when the force
simulation has stopped running.
And often times it's definitely
not when the force simulation has,
like it's at the very beginning
of the force simulation.
So then you want to make
sure to update the x and
y as the force simulation is running.
And then you'll get the right x and
y attributes.